welcome back to another video Louis from
trade options with me to come here
today's video is all about option
spreads so after watching this you
should be able to fully understand what
an option spread is how they work what
different kinds of options where it
exists and even more option spreads can
be thought of as Lego bricks they are
the basic building blocks of almost all
option strategies and that's also the
reason why it's extremely important to
completely understand what option
spreads are and how they work if you
completely understand option spreads you
will have a much better time
understanding all other option
strategies it's a much better idea to
learn and fully understand these simple
building blocks than to try to
understand all these more advanced
option strategies right away if you
understand these basic spreads you can
understand almost everything but if you
only understand and are familiar with
one or two more complex strategies you
would have much harder time learning
other strategies as well so what I'm
trying to say is it's much more
efficient to learn how option spreads
works than it is to learn other specific
more advanced strategies first so
without further ado let's get started
what is an option spread an option
spread is an option strategy involving
the purchase and sale of options a
different strike prices and or different
expiration dates on one underlying asset
so all options involved in option spread
are of the same type which means that
all options are either cool options or
put options all options involved are on
the same underlying asset and the only
aspect that they're different is either
expiration date or strike price or both
expiry
and strike price furthermore an option
spread consists of the same number of
long as short options so if you sell two
options you also have to buy two options
otherwise it wouldn't be an option
spread in a few minutes you will learn
about different kinds of option spreads
but it's important to always keep this
in mind before we get into the different
types of option spreads I just want to
give you a specific example of an option
spread so our example option spread is
you buy three cool options with a strike
price of fifty and you sell three cool
options with a strike price of fifty
five and both have the same expiration
date this means the chosen options were
cool options there are no put options
involved otherwise it wouldn't be an
option spread and they only differ in
regards to strike price and obviously
they both are on the same underlying
asset and as you can see we bought three
cool options and we sold three cool
options so the same amount of long has
short options are involved
now you should be familiar with the
basics of all option spreads so now we
can move on to some different types of
options breath
basically there are three main types of
option spreads there are vertical
spreads there are horizontal spreads and
there are diagonal spreads I will now
present each of these in more detail
first of what are vertical spreads a
vertical spread is an option strategy
that only consists of options that
differ in regards to strike price so all
options of the same type they have the
same expiration date but they only
differ in regards to strike price this
doesn't leave too many possibilities for
different spreads and that's why they're
only exist for different vertical
spreads but these for vertical spreads
can be ordered into six different
categories the first two are cool
spreads those are the spreads that only
consist of cool options the second type
is put spreads those are the vertical
spreads but only consist of put options
next up we have bull spreads blue
spreads are those that are bullish or
their profit from increasing prices
furthermore we have bear spreads those
are the spreads that are a barrier
strategy that profit from decreasing
underlying assets prices and last but
not least we have credit and debit
spreads debit spreads are those that are
open for a debit which means that you
have to pay to open them and credit
spreads are those that are opened for a
credit which means that you actually
receive money to open these spreads the
four different vertical spreads that
exist are bull cool spreads will put
spreads bear-crawl spreads and bear put
spreads the setup of the vertical spread
is actually very simple all you have to
do to create a vertical spread is buy an
option
and sell an option with a different
strike price on the same underlying
asset with the same expiration date
that's it this is how the payoff
diagrams of a bull spread and the bear
spread looked like like I just presented
earlier bull spreads and bear spreads
can either be set up with put or call
options but this doesn't really affect
the payoff diagrams in a big way
the setup of a bull spread is as follows
you buy a call option and sell a call
option at a higher strike price bear
spreads are set up very similar bear
call spreads are set up by selling the
call option and buying one at a higher
strike price and bear fruit spreads are
set up by selling a put option and
buying one at a higher strike price as
you can see on the payoff diagrams
vertical spreads are defined risk and
defined profit strategies this means
that you can't lose or make more than a
certain predetermined amount of money on
a vertical spread position to calculate
the max risk or Max profit
you only need one relatively simple
formula that formula is the width of the
strikes times 100 minus the premium so
if the width between the strikes is 5
all you have to do is multiply 5 by 100
which is 500 and if the premium to open
that spread was $100 $400 would be the
result of this calculation this
calculation is used to determine the max
risk for credit spreads and the max
profit potential for debit spreads
credit spreads are bull put spreads and
bear kula spreads and debit spreads are
bear put spreads and bull Akula spreads
the other calculation needed to find out
the max risk for debit spreads and the
max profit potential for credit spreads
is actually adjust the premium so the
premium received for credit
spreads is the max profit potential and
the premium paid to open my debit spread
is the max risk hopefully this makes
sense otherwise please let me know in
the comment section below and I'll do my
best to help you out vertical spreads
are directional strategies
this means they try to profit from price
movement in the underlying asset implied
volatility and time only have a small
impact on a vertical spread now you
should know what vertical spreads are
and how they work
next up with horizontal spreads so what
are horizontal spreads horizontal
spreads are an option strategy involving
options that only differ in regards to
expiration date this means the options
involve the horizontal spreads have the
same strike price they're on the same
underlying asset but they have different
expiration dates horizontal spreads are
also referred to best calendar spreads
there are four different types of
calendar or horizontal spreads
first off we have short cool calendar
spreads and they are set up in the
following way
you buy one cool option in the front
month and seller one cool option in the
back month front month is the early
expiration it and back month is a later
expiration date a long cool calendar
spread is exactly the other way around
is settle one cool option in the front
month and you buy one cool ops in the
back month these two calendar spreads
can also be created with put options so
all you have to do is exchange the word
cooler with put so instead of buying a
cool option the front month and selling
one in the back month you buy a put
option and sell a put option I don't
think I have to go over them in detail
this is how the payoff diagram of a long
calendar spread looks like as you can
see it's a neutral strategy that doesn't
try to profit from price movement in the
underlying asset however depending on
which strike price you choose a calendar
spread can be set up more and less
directional but generally calendar
spreads aren't directional strategy they
actually try to take advantage of
movement in implied volatility for
instance long calendar spreads try to
profit from increase in implied
volatility
whereas short calendar spreads try to do
the opposite summed up calendar spreads
try to profit more from implied
volatility and time then movement in the
underlying assets price last but not
least what are diagonal spreads diagonal
spreads actually a combination of
horizontal and vertical spreads the
options involved in diagonal spreads
differ in both regards expiration date
and strike price this obviously leaves a
lot of possibilities and that's also why
you can set up diagonal spreads in many
different ways I won't go over the
different ways in detail right now
because that would just take way too
much time instead I'll just present one
example so that you can see how
diagonals breads are set up in our
example we have five long cores and five
short calls the five long calls will
have the strike price forty eight and
they're all in the front month the five
short cools had the strike price of
fifty four and they are all in the back
month which means that they have a later
expiration date than the long calls as
you can see these options have different
strike prices and different expiration
date nevertheless they are still the
same number of long short options and
it's only one type of options there are
only cool options are not put options
therefore this is a diagonals bread
you could also create a diagonal spread
with put options or completely different
strike prices or other expiration dates
diagonal spreads try to take advantage
of price movement in the underlying
asked and implied volatility and time
generally diagnosed spreads are probably
the most complicated and complex of
these three options breads I definitely
would not recommend a beginner trading
these but now let's move on and recap
some of the most important points on
this table you can see why the different
option spreads have their name
horizontal spreads only different
regards to expiration dates vertical
spreads only different regards to strike
price and diagnosed spreads differ in
regards to both in other words diagnosed
spreads are a combination of horizontal
and vertical spreads none of these
spreads is necessarily better than the
other they are all suitable for
difference in areas in different markets
for instance if you want to take
advantage of price moves in an
underlying asset then a vertical spread
would probably be the best choice
however if you want to take advantage of
increasing implied volatility then a
diagonal spread or probably even a
horizontal spread would be the best
choice but generally speaking vertical
spreads are by far the easiest and
simplest of these three different option
spreads and there are also the most
beginner friendly generally option
spreads or option strategies that
involve different expiration dates
aren't as simple as those at only of
options in the same expiration cycle but
as I said in the introduction of this
video if you fully understand option
spreads and especially vertical spreads
you will have a much better time
understanding other option strategies as
well why is that you may ask well the
reason for that is because most other
option strategies are simply combination
of different option spread let me give
you a specific example iron condors are
usually labeled as a more complex
four-legged option strategy however iron
condors aren't anything else than the
combination of the simple cool spread
and a put spread so if you fully
understand these simple vertical spreads
you will also be able to understand how
iron condors work the same goes with
most other Optum strategies as well
that's why I will give you another
example
butterfly spreads are another option
strategy involving four different
options but once again all they are are
combination of a cool spread and another
cool spread or a put spread and another
pod spread so actually butterflies
aren't that complex after all I hope you
can understand what I'm trying to say
with this if you want to learn more
about butterflies I actually have a
separate video on them so make sure to
check that out I'll leave a link to that
in the comment section below
in conclusion option spreads can be
thought of as Lego breaks just like
Legos option spreads can be combined in
many different ways to create whatever
your heart desires
thanks for watching I truly hope you
enjoyed this video if you have any
questions or comments please let me know
in the comment section below and I will
help you out as fast as possible
otherwise make sure to subscribe if you
enjoy content like this